# GuitarTabs2Notes

---

### What problem does this solve?

This is a simple project, without tons of features, that was born from a 
simple need. 

By far the most widely spread instrument is the guitar. 

Sites like UltimateGuitar (and many more) are dedicated almost entirely to 
guitar (or bass) tabs/arrangements. 

Some of these sites have started to add support for other instruments, but 
still the bulk of their features are aimed at guitar players, and many tabs 
on those sites are simply guitar tabs instead of general musical notation.

Consider the following situation: you see a guitar tab that you'd like to 
play, maybe other arrangements for that song are too difficult, or also 
intrument-specific, or simply the song is so obscure that only some forgotten 
person on UltimateGuitar has thought to make an arrangement for it. 

But darn it! You pay the harp, or violin, or oboe, or lyre, or kalimba, or any 
other instrument that is not the guitar so these tabs are useless to you.

Sounds familiar?

This is the need that **GuitarTabs2Notes** aims to solve!

### How it works?

**1**. 
Find a guitar tab that you like. 
It should be a block of text looking something like this:
```
e|------------------------------------|
B|-------0-----------2----------0-----|
G|------------------------------------|
D|----0----------2---------0----------|
A|------------------------------------|
E|-3---------3---------3--------------|
```

**2**. Copy and paste it into a Notepad in your own computer and save it as a 
.txt file.

**3**. Run **GuitarTabs2Notes** and select this .txt file when asked to select 
your guitar tabs.

**4**. You're **done**! **GuitarTabs2Notes** will generate both a .txt file 
where the guitar tabs are translated to the actual notes they represent, and a 
PDF where it will draw the notes in staff notation.

### Things to know

Some things to know about the functioning of this software, in no particular 
order.

- **This is a simple project, done in a week.** This means that: 

  - **It will lack MANY features that other programs have.** You won't see any 
    features about modifying the notes themselves. This software simply 
    translates the guitar tabs to a form that is accessible to all 
    instruments.
    
  - **There will be bugs.** The generated PDF may not look the best, or the 
    program may simply not work on your computer at all and give you a weird 
    error. I will do my best to solve these issues when someone tells me about 
    them because i want this program to just magically work for as many people 
    as possible, but if some bug requires rewriting half the program to solve 
    it, I may just place a band-aid solution on top of it and call it a day. 


- The name of the .txt file will be considered the title of the song. The 
  generated output files will have the same name and will also use this name 
  as the title to write inside the actual files.
  - Crediting the composer, arranger, original song and so on is the 
    responsibility of whoever distributes any material generated by this 
    program (you could distribute a credits file along with the output of 
    this program for example).
    

- Inside the program's folder, in the `data` folder you will find 
  `config.yaml`. This file is the "options menu" of the program. It has some 
  settings that you can adjust, including where to place the generated files. 
  I have treid to add some explanations inside that file for the settings that 
  I thought may create confusion. Feel free to play around with them or contact 
  me if something is unclear, and I will try to adjust the explanations.
  












